# Meeting Minutes 23 

    Meeting began: 12:00 PM 4/11/25 

Members in attendance: Ashli, Carter, Gabriel, Maxwell, Tate 

Cindy was not able to attend today but joined virtually 

 

## Tasks Completed: 

Ashli: Met with instructor and continued work on motors for prototype 

Carter: Met with instructor and adjusted code  

Cindy: Met with instructor and continued work on vibration for prototype  

Gabriel: Met with instructor and worked with battery operation 

Maxwell: Met with instructor and worked on code  

Tate: Met with instructor and worked on code 

 

## Meeting Notes: 

Earlier in the week, we met with our instructor and discussed our progress on our project with him. Within that meeting, we were advised a few different things as well as being given an additional extension for our prototype and experimental analysis. The extension for the analysis was due to certain aspects not being able to be completed, but for today’s meeting we will complete the parts of this that we can. For the sensor/display test we configured our sensors at a similar distance they would be in the machine and ran 5 tests with 10 attempts in each run to see the accuracy of them. We were able to come out with 100% on each test, which were great results. Next, was the controller test, which consisted of echoing the inputs of the controller on the pi. This was found using echo on ROS2 which displayed high on the press of a certain button, which also came back with 100% accuracy. While all of this was going on we had our battery’s duration being tested by simply having it power the motor and having a timer running. With this being done we are now going to finish our experimental analysis and get it turned in today, so we will not be behind. Along with this Ashli finished the design for two housing units (one for our current motors and one for the instructor suggested motors) and sent them over the IMaker space to be printed. Lastly, we worked on our poster on Overleaf. 

 

## Tasks for Next Week: 

Ashli: Finish prototype! 

Carter: Finish prototype! 

Cindy: Finish prototype! 

Gabriel: Finish prototype! 

Maxwell: Finish prototype! 

Tate: Finish prototype! 

 

    Meeting ended:  4:12 4/11/2025 

 
