# Meeting Minutes 21 

    Meeting began: 12:00 PM 3/28/25 

Members in attendance: Ashli, Carter, Cindy, Gabriel, Maxwell, Tate 

 

## Tasks Completed: 

Ashli: configured motor controller to raspberry pi 

Carter: Configured ROS 2 on raspberry pi 

Cindy: figure out how to configure vibration to raspberry pi 

Gabriel: made proper connections and ordered BOM 

Maxwell: Completed code 

Tate: Completed code 

 

## Meeting Notes: 

This week we chose to meet twice, once on Tuesday and once on Friday. At Tuesday’s meeting it was decided that we needed to place an additional BOM order. On this order we included a GPIO to USB adaptor, an additional battery (5V) for the raspberry pi, and an additional LCD screen. The reasoning for these purchases is as follows: the adaptor is so the sensors can operate with ROS, the battery is so the motors and pi are not functioning off the same source, and the LCD screen is because the wiring on this one if less complex than the previous one. This was sent on Tuesday and as of today (3/28) the order has been placed. Today, we are focusing on the experimental analysis while we are awaiting the additional parts. Unexpectedly, when trying to connect the vibration device to the pi during the wiring there was a mishap that led to the raspberry pi receiving too much voltage and getting fried. This was a major concern, so we now have to add a pi to the BOM as well. 

 

## Tasks for Next Week: 

Ashli: Work on portion of Experimental Analysis (Motor Operation) 

Carter: Work on portion of Experimental Analysis (Controller Operation) 

Cindy: Work on portion of Experimental Analysis (Vibration device working with relay) 

Gabriel: Work on portion of Experimental Analysis (Battery Duration) 

Maxwell: Work on portion of Experimental Analysis (Tennis Ball Sensing Experiment) 

Tate: Work on portion of Experimental Analysis (Tennis Ball Sensing Experiment) 

 

    Meeting Ended: 2:06 PM 3/28/2025 

 

 

 

 
