# Meeting Minutes 22 

    Meeting began: 12:00 PM 4/4/25 

Members in attendance: Ashli, Carter, Cindy, Maxwell, Tate 

Gabriel had an interview in Nashville, TN so he was not able to attend, he however did call in to check for updates 

 

## Tasks Completed: 

Ashli: Worked on portion of Experimental Analysis  

Carter: Worked on portion of Experimental Analysis  

Cindy: Worked on portion of Experimental Analysis  

Gabriel: Worked on portion of Experimental Analysis 

Maxwell: Worked on portion of Experimental Analysis  

Tate: Worked on portion of Experimental Analysis 

 

## Meeting Notes: 

We began today’s meeting by discussing our updates in regard to our prototype. We were given a week extension due to our Pi getting fried and us having to wait on a new Pi to come in. The new Pi was picked up this week and Progress has been made with getting all the coding and files on the new device. We then were finally able to test the lidar sensor since we now have an operating Pi as well as the adaptors needed for it to work with ROS. The Lidar operates as intended on the Pi. We next tested the operation of the motor relay, which allows the motor to be operated using the controller. This was also a successful operation as we were able to test the code for the motor controller with every input working correctly. Lastly, we tested the use of the vibration device with the controller. 

 

## Tasks for Next Week: 

Ashli: Finish portion of Experimental Analysis 

Carter: Finish portion of Experimental Analysis  

Cindy: Finish portion of Experimental Analysis  

Gabriel: Finish portion of Experimental Analysis  

Maxwell: Finish portion of Experimental Analysis  

Tate: Finish portion of Experimental Analysis 

 

    Meeting ended: 2:17 4/4/2025 

 

 

 
