# Meeting Minutes 8 

    Meeting began: 5:00 PM 10/22/24 

Members in attendance: Ashli, Carter, Cindy, Gabriel, Maxwell, Tate 

## Tasks completed: 

Ashli: conceptual design 

Carter: conceptual design 

Cindy: conceptual design 

Gabriel:  conceptual design, met with advisor 

Maxwell: conceptual design, met with advisor 

Tate: conceptual design 

## Meeting Notes: 

We began today’s meeting by discussing the contents of our meeting we had with our advisor. The purpose of this meeting was to gain insight on how to structure our project from a professional source. Gabriel and Maxwell attended this meeting and relayed what they were told. This involved different approaches to tackling our different subsystems. For the counter we brought up the use of an Arduino, in which we received positive feedback with caution. This caution was to make sure the Arduino is hardened, since they are very exposed and susceptible to damage in the conditions, we would expose it to. For the vibration, we chose to be brief in explaining this due to the fact that we are unsure how we will implement it without seeing the device first. Fortunately, enough for us, we have received a response from our customer and are in the motion to set up a meeting to view the device this week. Lastly, for the motor/RC we were given a few hypothetical options to consider ranging from infrared frequency, a radio controller, or transceivers. At the moment we are looking towards using a Bluetooth transceiver since the Arduino already has Bluetooth capability. With this information in mind, we then reviewed the feedback we received for our conceptual design. As advised in our feedback, we chose to split our subsystems from three groups into six where each member will have their own subsection. These specific assignments can be found in our tasks for next week.  


## Tasks for next week: 

Ashli: Begin work on Motor subsystem, view machine on Wednesday if available 

Carter: Begin work on RC subsystem, view machine on Wednesday if available 

Cindy: Begin work on Vibrator (software) subsystem, view machine on Wednesday if available 

Gabriel: Begin work on Power subsystem, view machine on Wednesday if available 

Maxwell: Begin work on Counter (software) subsystem, view machine on Wednesday if available 

Tate: Begin work on Counter (hardware) subsystem, view machine on Wednesday if available 

 

    Meeting Ended: 6:18 PM 10/22/24 

 
