# Meeting Minutes 17 

    Meeting began: 12:00 PM 2/21/25 

Members in attendance: Ashli, Carter, Cindy, Gabriel, Maxwell, Tate 

 

## Tasks Completed: 

Ashli: rescheduled meeting with advisor due to weather 

Carter: completed read.me file to best capability at this given moment 

Cindy: rescheduled meeting with advisor due to weather 

Gabriel: began LTspice simulation 

Maxwell: rescheduled meeting with advisor due to weather, began coding 

Tate: Installed libraries and started code 

 

## Meeting Notes: 

In today's meeting the initial topic of discussion was in regard to our BOM order. Gabriel went and spoke to Mrs. Julie to get an update on the shipping of our items. She informed him that most of our parts should have arrived by Wednesday, February 19. However, nothing has come in most likely due to inclement weather. She said she would send an email to us whenever they come in. This is our next major step as the majority of our next moves involve work with the parts. We then updated each other on our tasks completed from the previous week and then decided to visit Julie just to get an additional update while we're all here. After seeing Julie, we were able to see that some of our components had arrived, so we unpackaged them and took them to the Capstone lab. 

 

## Tasks for next Week: 

Ashli: meet with advisor  

Carter: start controller code 

Cindy: meet with advisor 

Gabriel: continue simulation 

Maxwell: meet with advisor, continue sensor coding 

Tate: continue display coding 

 
    Meeting ended:  12:26 PM 2/21/25 


 
